# 19th July

## **Attendees:**&#x20;

Duncan Soutar, Matt Davies, Kevin Hammond, Christian Taylor, Abbie Yeates, Lewis Mayne



### Minutes:



1.  Parameters Committee

    1. Plutus cost model to be revisited on nect call
    2. Governance parameters for 1694 now agreed
    3. MinFeeRespit per bite - feedback that setting could be too high and so will be revisited at next call as looking for sustainability for DApps


2.  Opensource Requests

    1. Looking into rewards & recognition for contributors
    2. Security policy does not require boards approval - will set up and start running
    3. Kevin & Christian to determine whether Nix website comes under Intersect or not
    4. Framework for opensource projects passed
    5. Engineering Handbook to be forked over to Intersect


3.  Update from Hard Fork Working Group

    1. Timeline Reviewed and updated - well received by the group
    2. Hard Fork Timeline to be simplified and published to the community
    3. Ecosystem readiness to be shared at next session - will call out what exchanges and apps are expected to do
    4. Kevin Hammond to review timing


4.  Change Requests

    1. No new change requests


5.  Security Council

    1. No update


6.  TSC Development

    1. Update on first session with the TSC Development group.&#x20;
    2. 5 Initial elected roles have been defined with responsibilities allocated: Continuity Seat, Quality Seat, Research Seat, Programme Seat & Operations Seat

