# 25th Sept 24



1. **TSC Elections**

* Item: There are six nominees for five open TSC positions.
* Decision: The group agreed need for TSC candidates based with senior expertise in Cardano’s design and contributions. Candidates will be approached by TSC to discuss experience and will be asked to provide additional evidence where necessary to support their application.
* Action: Kevin Hammond: Work with Karen Wickham (Intersect) to distribute the applications for committee review.

Committee: Each member will independently review the applications. The committee will provide a short-list of those candidates who meet the criteria.

**2. 2025 Budget – Top-Down Approach**

* Item: Discussion of the 2025 budget and potential for a 35% increase in developer capacityl.
* Decision: A 35% total budget uplift will be requested to accommodate the expected increase in capacity, and to ensure that as many work items as possible can be accommodated in 2025.
* Action: Lewis Mayne: Capture in the minutes that the 35% uplift is an anticipation of total growth, replacing the previous 20% proposed uplift. Ensure this is clearly communicated.
* Action: Ricky Rand and Neil Davies: Continue monitoring potential developer growth and finalize details on the expected numbers within two weeks.

I have spoken to [@Lawrence](https://intersectmbo.slack.com/team/U05SE2VJ78U).  We should update the budget request to reflect the 35% uplift.

**3. Maintenance Activities**

* Item: Discussion on allocating budget for maintenance-related activities, estimated to require around 40% of the overall budget.
* Decision: Reserve approximately 40% of the budget for maintenance, based on industry norms (40-60% of effort). Maintain flexibility to reallocate budget based on need.
* Action: Lewis Mayne: Continue to track the budget decisions and ensure maintenance-related costs are well documented.
* Action: Kevin Hammond: Facilitate discussions on whether additional maintenance items should be included, and ensure transparency in reporting maintenance impacts on new development.

Update: Additional items added, discussion happening prior to the TSC meeting.

**4. Updated Terms of Reference for TSC**

* Item: Review of the updated terms of reference for the Technical Steering Committee.
* Decision: The terms of reference will be circulated for feedback, and members will have one week to comment.
* Action: Kevin Hammond: Circulate the updated terms of reference on the channel for feedback.
* Action: Committee: Review the ToR and provide comments within the one-week deadline.

Update: Circulated and updated the ToR.

**5. Sessions for Detailed Discussion on Work Items**

* Item: Organizing structured sessions to discuss key work items such as anti-grinding, Mithril, and Peras.
* Decision: Each session will have a champion and technical experts, with structured discussions to ensure clarity on the technical benefits and interactions between work items.
* Action: Nicholas Clarke: Develop a formal structure for the sessions, ensuring each has the right technical expertise.
* Action: Kevin Hammond and Neil Davies: Organize a session with Duncan Coutts to discuss interactions between the work items before diving into the facilitated sessions.

Update: Initial discussion to take place on Friday.  Check with [@nclarke](https://intersectmbo.slack.com/team/U02A0R550) about formal structure.

**6. Search for Co-Chair of Core Infrastructure Networking Group**

* Item: The need to find a new co-chair for the Core Infrastructure Networking Group, as Leonard Hegarty (IOE) is stepping down.
* Decision: The role will be opened to the wider community. A description of the role will be provided for clarity.
* Action: Hwang Huongket: Draft and share a description of the co-chair role in the TSC channel to facilitate nominations.  Existing infrastructure group members should be encouraged to apply, opening a member vacancy if they are selected.
