# 28th August 24

1. **TSC Development**
   1. Committee Elections plan shared
   2. 50% of TSC to be voted for voted for in October
   3. Appointment of 3 positions in interim (to make a total of 9 by end of October)
   4. Technical Requirements for TSC discussed and how to ensure that sitting members have the required technical experience and knowledge&#x20;
   5. Population of TSC appointees required for next week to enable discussions on Roadmap and eventually approve



1.  **Roadmap**

    1. Technical Working groups approached to evaluate and input into proposals
    2. Rough sizing and estimating now applied to roadmap proposals
    3. Request for Kevin: Population of empty proposals
    4. Establishment of 4 SIGs to facilitate community input - Scalability, DApps, SPOs, InterOperability
    5. Approach to Miriam & Fergie Miller - Research Proposals to be added to roadmap
    6. Next major step: TSC evaluation, discussion, shaping before approval


2.  **Supplier Tendering**

    1. Session to be set up to define the requirements of a core developer
    2. Decisions to be made on approach for [maintenance items list](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1m0NH3b8hq3UxUxxzIMagYiHUeSIIdDGZC\_BtIEQwXQY/edit?gid=2074588930#gid=2074588930)


3.  **Hard Fork Working Group**

    1. No update this week


4. **Parameters Committee**
   1. Skipped for this week as no urgent business
   2. Review of plutus script limits after HF

\




\




\
