# 11th June 25

**Meeting Recording:**

[**https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GcTFj1AUU\_c**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GcTFj1AUU_c)

**Attendees:**

<table><thead><tr><th width="123">First name</th><th width="132">Last name</th><th width="348">Position</th><th>Voting Member</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Jonathan</td><td>Kelly</td><td>TSC Member</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Alexander</td><td>Moser</td><td>TSC Member (Cardano Foundation)</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Markus</td><td>Gufler</td><td>TSC Member (Cardano Foundation)</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Kevin</td><td>Hammond</td><td>TSC Chair</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Benjamin</td><td>Hart</td><td>TSC Member (MLabs)</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Kevin</td><td>Hammond</td><td>TSC Chair</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Sebastian</td><td>Nagel</td><td>TSC Member (IOG)</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Nicolas</td><td>Biri</td><td>TSC Member (IOG)</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Duncan</td><td>Soutar</td><td>TSC Secretary</td><td>N</td></tr><tr><td>Terence</td><td>McCutcheon</td><td>OSC Secretary</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Christian</td><td>Taylor</td><td>Intersect - Opensource Head</td><td>N</td></tr><tr><td>Kris</td><td>Bennett</td><td>Observer</td><td>N</td></tr><tr><td>Lorenzo</td><td>Bruno</td><td>Observer</td><td>N</td></tr></tbody></table>

**Minutes:**

<table><thead><tr><th width="194">Agenda Item</th><th width="364">Discussion</th><th>Actions / Decisions</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>1. Apologies</td><td>Ben Hart, Neil Davies, Duncan Coutts</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>2. Update from ISC</td><td>DS: Target to complete TSC Remit is 30th June for Board Meeting<br>ISC Committee Member to join Board meeting 30th June<br>Off-chain contracts being created within Procurement atIntersect<br>39 treasury withdrawals preferred in DRep Poll<br></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>3. Follow Up on KES Agent</td><td>Duncan C &#x26; Adam not present therefore not discussed</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>4. Intra-era hard fork to fix non-disjoint reference inputs</td><td>KH: Relevant to discussion on TSC Remit regarding Hard Forks<br>Desire to fix a particular bug within Release team however, this is impacts an exceptionally low level of Ada (approx 500 Ada)<br>Therefore recommends not to rush next hard fork in order to address this issue<br>Recommends trying to have one single Hard for event which includes Plutus Improvements<br>Potentially looking at convening HF working group in September<br><br>Node Development Team would like a decision by TSC on Hard Fork Timing:<br><br><br>When would it happen?<br>How should it be managed - reconvene HFWG?<br>KH: Implication that next Hardfork would need to be at least 3 months after this one so would be looking at potentially a year away<br></td><td>Action: Duncan to send a vote out in Slack on whether to have single HF event or two</td></tr><tr><td>5.TSC Remit</td><td>DS:Walked though the RACI Matrix template<br>Gave an example of a completed area in relation to TSC's responsibilities.<br>Clarified that this is being used to help clarify position with Intersect Board.</td><td>Action: TSC members to input their views into the document for next TSC session</td></tr><tr><td>6. Any further discussion on the maintenance contract and how IOG proposes to progress it<br>Is IOG taking on full responsibility for all core maintenance?<br>If not, how should it be covered?<br></td><td>KH: Important that SoWs provided cover all of the work a)proposed by IOG b) needed as part of core maintenance<br>MG: Expressed frustration that TSC members are hearing about Hard Fork plans as part of a public meeting. How can the TSC be informed ahead of the call?<br>KH: [Check Recording] At this stage it is information on how it wants to be involved, what actions it wants to take, content of Hard Fork.<br>Will look at how information from the Node Development Team is shared with the TSC to keep it up to date.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>7. Proposed Joint meeting with OSC and possibly PSC to classify “core” budget proposals</td><td>KH: Seeking to arrange a meeting with the OSC to agree scope of Budget proposals and which ones can be considered core</td><td>Action: Duncan to speak to Christian and Tex on availability</td></tr></tbody></table>
