# Meeting Minutes December 10, 2025

## Attendees:&#x20;

| Name              | Attendance | Role            | Voting Seat (Y/N) | Term         |
| ----------------- | ---------- | --------------- | ----------------- | ------------ |
| Kevin Hammond     | Yes        | Chair           | Y                 | October 2026 |
| TBC               | No         | Vice Chair      | Y                 | October 2026 |
| Bosko Majdanac    | Yes        | Secretary       | N                 | N/A          |
| Tex McCutcheon    | Yes        | Alt - Secretary | N                 | N/A          |
| Nicolas Biri      | Yes        | Member/Seat     | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Duncan Coutts     | Yes        | Member/Seat     | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Sebastian Nagel   | Yes        | Member/Seat     | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Neil Davies       | Yes        | Member/Seat     | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Alexander Moser   | No         | Member/Seat     | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Ryan Wiley        | Yes        | Member/Seat     | Y                 | October 2026 |
| Udai Solanki      | Yes        | Member/Seat     | Y                 | October 2026 |
| Leandros Holleman | Yes        | Member/Seat     | Y                 | October 2026 |
| Seungheon Oh      | No         | Member/Seat     | Y                 | October 2026 |

Community/Other Attendees

* Ryan Williams



**Recording:** [Technical Steering Committee - 2025/12/10 - Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/17ZBiIXIktMSOjtSnCXyjGVJSJ9zAVDd0/view)

**Transcript:** [Technical Steering Committee - 2025/12/10 - Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VRNZ9JZmVsqtBsSeNgHFKBNkrlvfDmbGhk4InfWjBQU/edit?pli=1\&tab=t.0#heading=h.vy2gtckyd9zc)

**Chat Transcript:** [Technical Steering Committee - 2025/12/10 - Chat Transcript](https://drive.google.com/file/d/16N2yckL2OUOavuepZ4WtvLtnYfdtIvuw/view)

## Intros

**Bosko**: Senior Project Manager, Intersect Staff, TSC Secretary\
**Duncan**: TBD\
**Kevin**: Kevin Hammond, TSC chair, Founder Ensurable Systems\
**Leo**: Developer@KeyPackt/AnetaV2/GenWealth single pool SPO, CEO LnLlabs, TSC member\
**Neil**: TSC, Network Params, PNSol Ltd\
**Nicolas**: Nicolas Biri, TSC voting member, Director of Software Architecture, IOG\
**Ryan**: Ryan Wiley, TSC voting member, Cybersecurity Penetration Tester.\
**Sebastian**: Sebastian Nagel, TSC voting member, Technical Architect, nCoding, IOE\
**Tex**: Terence 'Tex' McCutcheon - Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, OSC Secretary, Committee Liaison\
**Udai**: Udai Solanki - AIQUANT Tech, member-TSC

## Agenda 12.10.25

* Actions from the last meetings - Bosko
* Chain Incident Partition Working Group - Neil/Kevin
* Cardano Node Update - Kevin/Sebastian
* TSC operational budget - Kevin
* 2030 Vision and 2026 Budget - Kevin
* TSC Role
* Seungheon Oh - Tex
* Vice-Chair - Bosko
* AOB

## Decisions/Actions

Decisions

* The committee confirmed the decision to not replace the vacant TSC member position from the previous election list. The committee will operate with nine members until the next election.
* The committee agreed to continue working on an operational budget proposal for the TSC.
* The committee acknowledged that the TSC recommends on technical matters, while the Product Committee decides, regarding the nested transactions topic (though Udai raised an opposing view that the TSC should decide).
* The committee confirmed the next meeting on December 17th will be the final meeting of 2025.

Actions

* Bosko to complete initial population and updates to the Hard Fork Readiness Tracking Repository this week (likely tomorrow).
* Bosko to finalize the TSC's official response on nested transactions.
  * Kevin to share the original email address so the nested transactions response can be sent to the inquirer on behalf of the TSC.
* Sebastian to confirm and share the specific Plutus Core version that will be going into the hard fork.
* The TSC to work with the Product Committee on the 2030 Vision and 2026 Roadmap (possibly via a joint session).
* Nominations and discussion for the Vice Chair role to be taken out-of-band (via chat).

| Topic                                         | Discussion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| --------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| TSC Member Vacancy                            | The group previously voted out-of-band not to replace the vacant position from the last election list. The committee will operate with nine members until the next election (approx. 5 months). Terence clarified that electing a sixth member now would disrupt the safe five-and-five election cycle balance. Udai agreed that operating with nine is okay for now, to avoid community controversy about picking members from a previous electoral list.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | This committee will operate with nine members for the current term. The issue of elections/member numbers will be reconsidered at the next cycle.                                                                          |
| Hard Fork Readiness Repository                | All members were actioned to check and provide suggestions/PRs. Kevin noted the structure was reasonable but was still populated with data from the previous hard fork and needed updating for the upcoming one. Bosko confirmed he started filling in details and would finish the initial set this week (likely tomorrow), and would update the respective Slack channels.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Bosko to complete initial population and updates to the Hard Fork Readiness Tracking Repository this week.                                                                                                                 |
| Summary of Accepted CIPs for Hard Fork        | Benjamin requested a link to the summary of accepted CIPs. Ryan and Bosko provided the document link. The high-level summary includes new Plutus primitives, pacing on constants in Plutus, and ledger bug fixes. Benjamin was aware of the Plutus items but wanted the official list for open-source package adjustments.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | CIP summary link shared. Kevin noted this is the time to inform the working group if anything is missing.                                                                                                                  |
| Hard Fork Working Group Cadence               | The working group will meet on a two-week cadence. Bosko confirmed those registered received the update for next week's meeting.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | The next meeting is already scheduled for next week.                                                                                                                                                                       |
| Chain Partition Impact Analysis Working Group | This group is focused on preliminary analysis, gathering and structuring data/evidence via a control repository, largely underway by Kevin and others. The goal is to finish the preliminary analysis before the holiday break (end of next week). Sebastian asked if stake distribution/shifting data would be included. Kevin and Neil confirmed data on chain density and record of updates (to show stake shift) is being collected.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Short factual report to be produced by end of year (before holiday break). Further analysis will continue in the new year.                                                                                                 |
| GitHub Health File Standard                   | Terence and Christian were tasked to look into integrating the GitHub health file standard.Terence and Christian were tasked to look into integrating the GitHub health file standard.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Terence noted this is a 2026 initiative.                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| Plutus Core Version for Node 10.7 / RC11      | Sebastian and Kevin were to check with Ziang for the specific version. Sebastian clarified that the latest release is 155, but the upcoming release candidate will target the intra-era hard fork and would be confirmed.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Sebastian will share the final determined Plutus Core version when known.                                                                                                                                                  |
| TSC Official Response on Nested Transactions  | Bosko posted the draft response in Slack for Kevin and Neil (and others) to opine. Neil and Ryan confirmed they are happy with the draft. Udai questioned whether the TSC should be recommending or deciding on technical matters, viewing the latter as the TSC's role. Bosko clarified the current understanding is that TSC recommends and the product committee decides.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Bosko to finalize the response. Kevin to share the original email address so the response can be sent to the inquirer on behalf of the TSC. Discussion on TSC's decision-making power versus recommendation will continue. |
| Cardano Node Update (10.6 & 10.7)             | Kevin provided an update: Node 10.6 is being prepared with a fix for an LMDB issue. Node 10.7 (containing Plutus code) is still in preparation, pending work on cost modeling. It is not expected to be a mainnet release by the end of 2025, but may be ready for dedicated testnets.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | New 10.6 release expected very shortly. 10.7 mainnet release unlikely before end of year.                                                                                                                                  |
| TSC Operational Budget Proposal               | Kevin opened a discussion on the operational budget (previously proposed in June but not included in the Intersect budget). The items discussed included software requirements, quarterly in-person workshops, regular engineering town halls, coordination of technical workshops (like Node Diversity), and community support reimbursement (e.g., CIP editors, security/parameter committee volunteers). Sebastian strongly supported budgeting for CIP editors due to the critical nature of the process. Nicolas suggested integrating the town halls into the weekly TSC meetings rather than having a separate session. Udai argued the TSC's scope should be wider, focusing on core infrastructure, performance, and security, directly correlating to a bigger budget. Neil supported Udai's view, noting past efforts to drive these larger issues were rejected. Terence stressed the need for better communication and transparency by using existing open meetings and engaging with technical working groups. | The committee agreed to continue working on a new operational budget proposal. Key items include funding for CIP editors and potentially integrating town halls into the existing weekly meeting structure.                |
| 2030 Vision and 2026 Roadmap                  | Kevin noted the product committee is proposing an on-chain proposal for the 2030 vision. The TSC's role is to ensure the proposal is technically sound and to distill a sensible 2026 roadmap from it.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Action: TSC to work with the product committee on the 2030 Vision and 2026 roadmap (possibly via a joint session).                                                                                                         |
| Vice Chair Position                           | Kevin thanked the group for confirming his role as Chair and solicited nominations/volunteers for a Vice Chair, noting it could be a relatively light role to step in when the Chair is unavailable. Sebastian excused himself due to conflicts and a preference for focusing on the end-of-pipeline processes (hard forks, CIPs).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Action: Nominations for Vice Chair to be taken out-of-band (via chat/email). The role and responsibilities will be defined.                                                                                                |
