# Meeting Minutes January 21, 2025

## Attendees:&#x20;

| Name              | Attendance | Role            | Voting Seat (Y/N) | Term         |
| ----------------- | ---------- | --------------- | ----------------- | ------------ |
| Kevin Hammond     | Yes        | Chair           | Y                 | October 2026 |
| TBC               | No         | Vice Chair      | Y                 | October 2025 |
| Bosko Majdanac    | Yes        | Secretary       | N                 | N/A          |
| Tex McCutcheon    | Yes        | Alt - Secretary | N                 | N/A          |
| Nicolas Biri      | Yes        | Member/Seat     | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Duncan Coutts     | No         | Member/Seat     | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Sebastian Nagel   | Yes        | Member/Seat     | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Neil Davies       | Yes        | Member/Seat     | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Alexander Moser   | Yes        | Member/Seat     | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Ryan Wiley        | Yes        | Member/Seat     | Y                 | October 2026 |
| Udai Solanki      | Yes        | Member/Seat     | Y                 | October 2026 |
| Leandros Holleman | Yes        | Member/Seat     | Y                 | October 2026 |
| Seungheon Oh      | No         | Member/Seat     | Y                 | October 2026 |

Community/Other Attendees

* Abhik Nag
* Christian Taylor
* Markus Gufler
* Owen
* Ryan Williams



Recording: [Technical Steering Committee - 2026/01/21 - Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1bj9x7wa-xzU2HVLl3Hk3WaDubXhN16ae/view?usp=sharing)

Youtube: [https://youtu.be/\_jS-egZUH4c](https://youtu.be/_jS-egZUH4c)

Transcript: [Technical Steering Committee - 2026/01/21 - Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1V5DMeoBO2IyxVwYXb_--MakQK60pWiyqGcu5XjsyJ4k/edit?usp=sharing)

Chat Transcript: [Technical Steering Committee - 2026/01/21 - Chat Transcript](https://drive.google.com/file/d/12dyMhVJfO1l9t1Nu3z_RCnIn-Z9hSWF7/view?usp=sharing)

## Intros

Ryan: Ryan Wiley, Cybersecurity Professional, TSC Voting Member\
Sebastian: Sebastian Nagel, Technical architect, nCoding, IOE\
Nicolas: Nicolas Biri, Director of Software Architecture, IOG\
Udai: Udai Solanki, Member TSC and OSC, AIQUANT\
Bosko: Bosko Majdanac - Senior Project Manager, Intersect Staff, TSC Secretary

## Agenda 01.21.26

* Actions from the last meeting
* Feedback on 2030 Vision KPIs/Plans
* Meeting with Product Committee
* Goals and Objectives
* Parameter Updates
* 2025 Budget Proposals
* Alignment and professionalisation
* TSC Operational Budget
* Changing Meeting Time
* Cover for KH next week
* Vice-Chair
* AOB

## Decisions/Actions

**Decisions**

* Meeting Time Change: The weekly TSC meeting will now start at 1500 UTC to accommodate other meetings.
* KPI Ownership: The TSC will take responsibility for the "refinement" of technical KPIs (Qualitative/Quantitative) but not the final "Assurance" or "Execution."
* Working Group Status: No new working group will be formed for KPIs; the task is delegated to Leandro and Ryan C.
* Hard Fork Working Group meeting time: The internal working session will be moved.

**Actions**

* SPO Outreach: Alex, Ryan W., and Marcus to draft/promote communications (X/Twitter, blog posts) to encourage SPOs to vote on current governance actions.
* Constitutional Review: Kevin and Neil to review recent changes to the constitution (specifically guardrail timings) to assess security impacts.
* Goals & Objectives: Kevin to share a Google Doc for members to input unstructured goals for the 2026 term.
* Stake Pool Math: Ryan C. to finish the viability math for K=1000 with assistance from Terence.
* CIP Backlog: Ryan C. to progress the Ledger CIP for Calidus keys.
* Chair for Next Week: TSC members to coordinate out-of-band to find a volunteer to chair the January 28th meeting in Kevin’s absence.



| Topic                         | Discussion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Notes                                                                                      |
| ----------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Agenda Additions              | Markus raised a query regarding [a catalyst-funded blockchain security project](https://projectcatalyst.io/funds/12/cardano-partners-and-real-world-integrations/cutting-edge-web3-threat-detection-for-the-cardano-network-by-check-point-software-security) (a dashboard build). He questioned who maintains the credentials and defines attack parameters. | To be added to a future agenda for deeper technical review.                                |
| Action Items Review           | Bosko and Kevin reviewed actions from the last meeting. Alex's blog post on the constitution committee is complete.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Items regarding research reports and the chain incident report were held over.             |
| Chain Incident Report         | Kevin and Neil updated that the report is intended for publication by the end of the week. Discussion held on ensuring recommendations are clearly labeled as Executive vs. Working Group.                                                                                                                                                                    | The Working Group has been disbanded; authorship must be clear to avoid misrepresentation. |
| Stake Pool Viability (K=1000) | Ryan C. is calculating how much stake would move to smaller pools if the 'K' parameter is raised to 1,000.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Terence offered to assist with the mathematical modeling.                                  |
| TSC Operational Budget        | Kevin organized a kick-off call for 4 PM today to progress the TSC operational budget based on recent poll results.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | This is an initial session to get the process moving.                                      |
| Meeting Schedule Change HFWG  | Bosko coordinated with IOE to move the weekly session from Tuesdays to Thursdays to better align with release meetings.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Bosko to verify there are no conflicts with existing Thursday meetings.                    |
| 2030 Vision & KPIs            | Leandro presented a document to the Product Committee. They requested the TSC take ownership of technical KPIs and provide specific target values.                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Product Committee was receptive; Leandro and Ryan C. will lead the refinement.             |
| KPI Framework                 | Neil and Ryan C. proposed a structure: Aspirations → Requirements → Execution → Assurance.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Focus is on "refining" rather than "executing" or "setting direction."                     |
| 2026 Goals & Objectives       | The Intersect Committees (IC) proposed that committees set formal goals. Terence noted the TSC currently lacks clear lines of sight into all working groups.                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Kevin to create a Google Doc for collaborative drafting of these goals.                    |
| Parameter Updates             | Alex and Ryan C. discussed the two-step increase for transaction and block units. Current voting shows 21% DRep participation but <5% SPO participation.                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Urgency noted to increase SPO awareness as this involves security parameters.              |
| Governance & Constitution     | Ryan W. presented a timeline of parameter changes. A discrepancy was noted regarding a change in the "guardrail" period (from 3 months/90 days).                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Discussion on whether constitutional changes were properly vetted by the Security Council. |
| Hard Fork Strategy            | Sebastian initiated a "temperature check" on the frequency of hard forks. Consensus leaned toward a minimum 6-month gap between major updates.                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Target for the next major change (Dijkstra) is roughly late autumn 2026.                   |
| TSC Meeting Time              | Proposed to move the TSC meeting start time to 1500 UTC to avoid overlap with other meetings.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Change approved starting next week.                                                        |
| Leadership & Admin            | Kevin will be away next week. A volunteer is needed to chair the next session. Bosko is still seeking nominations for a Vice Chair.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | No immediate volunteer for chair; to be resolved out-of-band.                              |
