# Meeting Minutes January 28, 2026

## Attendees:&#x20;

| Name              | Attendance | Role            | Voting Seat (Y/N) | Term         |
| ----------------- | ---------- | --------------- | ----------------- | ------------ |
| Kevin Hammond     | No         | Chair           | Y                 | October 2026 |
| TBC               | No         | Vice Chair      | Y                 | October 2025 |
| Bosko Majdanac    | Yes        | Secretary       | N                 | N/A          |
| Tex McCutcheon    | Yes        | Alt - Secretary | N                 | N/A          |
| Nicolas Biri      | Yes        | Member/Seat     | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Duncan Coutts     | Yes        | Member/Seat     | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Sebastian Nagel   | No         | Member/Seat     | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Neil Davies       | Yes        | Member/Seat     | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Alexander Moser   | Yes        | Member/Seat     | Y                 | April 2026   |
| Ryan Wiley        | Yes        | Member/Seat     | Y                 | October 2026 |
| Udai Solanki      | Yes        | Member/Seat     | Y                 | October 2026 |
| Leandros Holleman | Yes        | Member/Seat     | Y                 | October 2026 |
| Seungheon Oh      | No         | Member/Seat     | Y                 | October 2026 |

Community/Other Attendees

* Markus Gufler
* Mike Hornan



Recording: [Technical Steering Committee - 2026/01/28 - Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1JTA45SpcRtRu-HN1n0j7jJU_it0XO1KX/view?usp=sharing)

Transcript: [Technical Steering Committee - 2026/01/28 - Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pwt_MPJ6hvmncOCK6NjtNqe9Lk0KNWHusq427a2FiI4/edit?usp=sharing)

Chat Transcript: [Technical Steering Committee - 2026/01/28 - Chat Transcript](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1VoRiiZ8tbMU7GwBYlsMh0pXkHV2w5A_S/view?usp=sharing)

## Intros

Neil: TSC, Parameters - PNSol\
Udai: TSC member, AIQUANT\
Nicolas: TSC Voting member, Director of Software Architecture, IOG.\
Ryan Wiley: Ryan Wiley, TSC Voting Member, Cybersecurity Professional\
Bosko: Senior Project Manager, Intersect Staff, TSC Secretary\
Tex: Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, OSC Secretary, Committee Liaison

## Agenda 01.28.26

* Actions from the last meeting
* TSC Operational Budget updates
* Constitution 2.4 effects
* Quick review of the parameter changes
* Vice-Chair
* AOB

## Decisions/Actions

**Decisions**

* **Chairmanship**: Neil will chair the current session in the absence of a volunteer vice-chair.
* **Coordination**: The committee decided to wait for Ryan’s math summary and Nicolas’s update on the IOG report before finalizing governance action steps on K-parameter changes.

**Actions**

* **Markus**: Provide the specific date/time for the SPO roundtable to the committee for promotion.
* **Neil & Kevin**: Review the Constitution 2.4 updates and security assessment for the next meeting.
* **Ryan**: Write a paragraph summarizing the "Stake Pool Math" (including pool counts and redistribution figures) for the minutes.
* **Nicolas**: Contact Carlos/IOG to determine the release timeline for the Incentive Research report.
* **All Members**: Spend 10 minutes reviewing the Operational Budget document on Slack and leave comments.<br>

| **Topic**                     | **Discussion**                                                                                                                                                   | **Notes**                                                                                                                              |
| ----------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Meeting Opening               | Neil took over as Chair for the meeting as no vice-chair had volunteered. Quorum was confirmed with six voting members present.                                  | Neil to act as Chair; Bosko assisting with agenda and actions.                                                                         |
| Agenda Approval               | Bosko presented a structured agenda including previous actions, budget, and constitution updates.                                                                | No other business was added at the start of the meeting.                                                                               |
| SPO Outreach                  | Markus provided an update on a community initiative for an SPO (Stake Pool Operator) roundtable scheduled for next week to discuss parameter changes.            | Initiative is community-branded, not Foundation-branded; includes participation from Pi and others.                                    |
| Communication Strategy        | The committee discussed the need to promote the roundtable and the importance of SPOs voting on current governance actions.                                      | Use Intersect and TSC channels to advertise the upcoming session once scheduled.                                                       |
| Governance Interdependencies  | Markus raised concerns regarding whether a failure of the current parameter proposal would delay the upcoming hard fork.                                         | Neil clarified that while parameter changes and hard forks have separate timelines, lack of coordination causes community "suffering." |
| Operational Budget            | The budget document has been shared on Slack with figures added by Kevin.                                                                                        | Committee members are urged to review and provide feedback within the document.                                                        |
| Constitution Updates          | Discussion on Constitution 2.4 was deferred as a security assessment must be completed first.                                                                    | Item carried over to the next meeting.                                                                                                 |
| Stake Pool Math (K-Parameter) | Ryan presented data on moving the K-parameter from 500 to 1,000. He estimated 5 billion ADA would be redistributed, potentially making \~345 small pools viable. | Ryan to provide a written summary paragraph with specific pool category data for the formal record.                                    |
| Incentive Analysis Report     | Nicolas mentioned that IOG (Input Output Global) is working on an incentive analysis report led by Carlos.                                                       | Nicolas to check the timeline of this report to see if the TSC should wait for its findings.                                           |
| CIP Backlog                   | Ryan noted technical complications regarding the "immu" (immutability) CIP.                                                                                      | Technical details are being discussed with CIP editors; link provided in chat.                                                         |
| Vice Chair Vacancy            | Neil declined the permanent Vice Chair role due to other commitments. No other volunteers stepped forward.                                                       | Position remains vacant.                                                                                                               |
| New Member Introduction       | Udai introduced himself, offering his background in architecture/security and volunteering his team of developers to assist the TSC.                             | Neil suggested Udai’s team focus on the Parameters Committee to learn operational economics.                                           |
