# 14th May 25

**Meeting Recording:**

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ansIw7xSM-k](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ansIw7xSM-k)

**Attendees:**

<table><thead><tr><th width="130">First name</th><th width="120">Last name</th><th width="304">Role</th><th>Voting Member</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Nicolas</td><td>Biri</td><td>TSC Member (IOG)</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Duncan</td><td>Coutts</td><td>TSC Member (Welltyped)</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Neil</td><td>Davies</td><td>TSC Member (PN Solutions)</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Matt</td><td>Davis</td><td>Intersect - Tech Ops Lead</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Adam</td><td>Dean</td><td>TSC Vice Chair</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Markus</td><td>Gufler</td><td>TSC Member (Cardano Foundation)</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Kevin</td><td>Hammond</td><td>TSC Chair</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Benjamin</td><td>Hart</td><td>TSC Member (MLabs)</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Jonathan</td><td>Kelly</td><td>TSC Member</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Pedro</td><td>Lucas</td><td>Observer</td><td>N</td></tr><tr><td>Terence</td><td>McCutcheon</td><td>OSC Secretary</td><td>N</td></tr><tr><td>Alexander</td><td>Moser</td><td>TSC Member (Cardano Foundation)</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Sebastian</td><td>Nagel</td><td>TSC Member (IOG)</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Ricky</td><td>Rand IOHK</td><td>IOE General Manager - Observer</td><td>N</td></tr><tr><td>Faizan</td><td>Shaikh</td><td>Observer</td><td>N</td></tr><tr><td>Duncan</td><td>Soutar</td><td>TSC Secretary</td><td>N</td></tr><tr><td>Christian</td><td>Taylor</td><td>Intersect Head of Opensource</td><td>N</td></tr></tbody></table>

**Minutes:**

<table><thead><tr><th width="152">Agenda Item</th><th width="453">Discussion</th><th>Actions / Decisions</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>1. Introduce new members to TSC Post Elections</td><td>- Introductions from all attendees on the call<br>- Duncan to confirm rules on Quorum now that TSC has 10 voting members<br>- Introduction calls to be set up with new members<br>- Timing of TSC meeting to be re-confirmed</td><td>Action: Duncan to check on rules regarding quorum. Whether this is decided by the TSC.<br>Action: Duncan to send out poll on TSC to confirm the timing of call<br>Action: Duncan to set up intro calls with new TSC members</td></tr><tr><td>2. Secretary Role</td><td><p>Duncan shared that the Intersect Exec Team intend to reduce the number of consultants on their staff and that it is likely that Duncan will be leaving his role as TSC Secretary over the coming weeks and months.<br>This plan is still being drafted and to be agreed with board to is still to be fully confirmed. It is likely that Duncan won't immediately leave intersect and so there will be opportunity for a good handover period.</p><p><br>MD: Suggested that this could be a good opportunity for a developer or community member looking to get involved and that this role may be combined with the parameters secretary role.</p><p><br>DS: Suggestion for the committee to review the parameters committee secretary job description and to tailor this to the TSC role.</p></td><td>Action: Share Parameters Committee Secretary Job Description<br>Action: TSC members to review and make suggestions for TSC secretary Job Description Role</td></tr><tr><td>3. Intersect Board Session on Committee Purpose</td><td><p>MD: ISC call on Monday discussed review of purpose of Intersect’s Committees. Acknowledges that the purpose of committees was created at the foundation of Intersect 18 months ago but have not been reviewed and that there have been a number of internal and external changes since. Wants the Intersect board to work in conjunction with committees on this reshaping.<br>KH: Points that purpose was ratified in September<br>MD: Request on all committee members to put forward their suggestions and opinions on the TSC purpose.</p><p><br>KPIs<br>MD: Encouraging that these should be set with the board to help provide clarity with the board.<br>KH: Need to understand outcome of TSC budget proposal. Highlighting that a number of proposals within the budget where placed under the TSC that the Committee believe is outside of its remit.<br>MD: Would like to encourage the TSC to think about creating KPI’s/Objectives that will enable the TSC to point to successful delivery ahead of 2026 budget. Highlights greater involvement of championing needs of the ecosystem, whether DApps, SPOs or other community members.<br>SN: Requesting access to materials which help get new members up to speed on TSC purpose.</p><p><br>Matts perspective<br>MD: Giving examples of where the TSC could be involved similar to parameters committee. Eg. Cardano Problem Statements<br>KH: Raised potential of Technical Town Hall for knowledge share with the community<br>MG: Highlights importance of TSC activities being value add due to the time and commitment of the experts within the TSC is a significant commitment. Would like to see any proposals that have been created.<br>DC: For the last 6 months the TSC had been operating in what it thought was its remit only for this to be challenged by Intersect Board.<br><br></p></td><td>Action: Duncan to share previously published TSC remits<br>Action: TSC members to submit their suggestions on the role of the TSC</td></tr><tr><td>4. TSC Chair and Vice Chair Position</td><td><p>DS: Raised that Intersect guidance is that Committee should be given the opportunity to re-elect both their chair and vice chair positions should they wish.<br>Highlighted that the rules on chair and vice-chair positions are fairly open for committees to decide themselves. TSC will need to formalise thier rule in their terms of Reference regarding both positions. Highlighted that some committees vote on each position every 6 months. Others have an elected vice chair being elected, becoming chair 6 months later, others have both roles being held for 12 months but with elections split six months apart.<br>Also highlighted that it might be helpful to make a decision on this post the confirmation of the TSC's new remit with the Intersect Board.</p><p><br>MG: Believes it would be better for all committees to follow the same rules rather than it being set up by each committee. Additionally, would like consistency of remit across the committees.<br>MD: Agrees that there is inconsistency across the committees when it comes to remit.<br></p></td><td>Action: Duncan to share document or role of chair &#x26; vice-chair in TSC<br>Decision: TSC Chair and Vice Chair decisions to be reviewed once TSC Purpose is re-affirmed</td></tr><tr><td>5. KES Agent</td><td>CT: Should be placed under and incubation project to give it a year to test adoption. This would prevent it needing a big budget.<br>AD: Believes that a large budget may be needed for successful implementation but does not believe it represents value for money.<br>DC: KES agent is partially implemented already in large parts with just some elements that haven’t been integrated into node. Believes that TSC needs to decide whether this should be included within protocol or not. Queries cost of $1m.<br>CT: *check notes*<br>RR: Largely agrees with Duncan Coutts that the TSC should be responsible for deciding whether this is within core Cardano. At least to give a recommendation to the community and to convince them of the value. Acknowledges that a spend may be needed to complete.<br>CT: Ask is whether this comes under Intersect<br>JK: Will need to know who maintainer if this is no longer going to be Welltyped.<br>DC: WellTyped are available to act as a maintainer<br>MD: The TSC needs to reach out to SPOs to establish if there is a need.<br>ND: Without KES agent Praos cannot be said to be complete. Points out that without KES it is holding back adoption of Cardano by other institutions.<br>KH: Put together a document with both sides of the argument and then have a note on the position to take.<br>BD: Queried the delivery without Welltyped’s involvement<br>RR: Confirmed that delivery will proceed as scheduled<br>AD: Highlights that there is currently no lead customer for this work, queries whether this will be valuable. Worried that by Intersect adopting KES Agent it legitimises it and leaves Intersect on the hook for maintenance.<br>NB: Should TSC reach out to Intersect Product committee as this is an adoption question.<br></td><td>Action: Adam &#x26; Duncan C to write up pros and cons for both in document ahead of vote by TSC.</td></tr><tr><td>6. Parameter Committee Memory Limit Proposals</td><td>KH: Will present proposal from parameter committee on memory limits</td><td>Action: Kevin to create proposal for Parameter committee changes to memory limits</td></tr></tbody></table>
