# 15th Jan 25

## Intros:

Kevin Hammond: TSC Voting Member - Chair of TSC - IOE

Neil Davies: TSC Voting Member - PN Solutions

Johnny Kelly: TSC Voting Member - IOE

Adam Dean: TSC Voting member &#x20;

Markus Gufler: TSC Voting member - Cardano Foundation

Nicholas Clark: TSC Voting Member - Tweag/Modus

Ben Hart: TSC Voting member - MLabs

\


Duncan Soutar: Secretary of TSC - Intersect

Matt Davies - Head of Technical Operations - Intersect

Hwang Hongket - Secretary of Core Infrastructure Roadmap - Intersect&#x20;

Lewis Mayne - Secretary of Hard Fork Working Group - Intersect

Ricky Rand - General Manager - IOE&#x20;

Duncan Coutts - WellTyped

Christian Taylor: Head of Open Source Office, Intersect Staff

Tex McCutcheon: Open Source Program Manager, Intersect Staff, Open Source Committee Secretary



| **Discussion Point**                                          | **Notes**                                                                                                                                                                 | **Actions: Responsible / Note**                                                                                                |
| ------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Thresholds for Decision Confidence by ICC on Plomin Hard Fork | Discussed the need to define observation periods for confidence in reaching the 85% threshold for a hard fork. Suggestions ranged from 12-hour to multi-day intervals.    | Action: Await recommendations from the technical group on observation periods. Follow up asynchronously to finalize specifics. |
| Participation Metrics ahead of Plomin Hard Fork               | Current metrics show progress but not at the pace required to meet thresholds. Exchange participation is lagging, causing uncertainties.                                  | Action: Continue targeted outreach to exchanges and large pools to address gaps in participation.                              |
| Plomin Hard Fork Updates                                      | Performance testing updates for node version 10.1.4 shared. Communications about the process are ongoing. Additional outreach efforts are targeted at under-engaged SPOs. | <p>Decision: Maintain daily updates on metrics; continue outreach to ensure informed participation.</p><p><br></p>             |
| Maintenance Contract Renewal                                  | Current maintenance contract expires in 16 days. Discussions included whether subcontractors should be directly contracted in the next cycle.                             | Decision: Extend existing arrangements without changes for this cycle; transition to direct subcontracting in the next term.   |
| Governance and Transparency                                   | Concerns raised about public perception of subcontracting and vendor lock-in. Emphasis on maintaining transparency and signaling future intent.                           | Action: Publicly communicate the intent to transition subcontractors to direct contracts for clarity and visibility.           |
| Developers Forum                                              | Proposal to form a regular forum for node developers to discuss architectural work                                                                                        | Action: Add a technical working group meeting to the development plan; explore quarterly or biannual forums.                   |
| Prioritization of Roadmap Projects                            | Initial triage of community-submitted proposals has begun. A scoring matrix will help evaluate proposals consistently.                                                    | Action: Review survey responses and scoring results; inform the community of updates.                                          |
| Community Feedback on Proposals                               | Concerns over incomplete survey updates from earlier respondents. Recommendation to re-engage and allow corrections.                                                      | Action: Notify prior respondents to update their survey responses; ensure consistent communication on proposal prioritization. |
| Leios and Peras Development                                   | Discussed synergies between two projects (Leios and Peras) and the need to progress them in parallel despite different stages of development.                             | Decision: Begin preliminary development for both projects, ensuring readiness for future integration.                          |
