# 17th April 25

Meeting Minutes:

<table><thead><tr><th width="134">Agenda Item</th><th width="403">Discussion Points</th><th>Actions</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>1. Resignation of Nicholas Clarke</td><td>Nick resigned from the TSC as of 15/04/25<br>Proposed vote of thanks to Nick for his time and service over 6 Months - endorsed by all</td><td>Public Announcement on Nick’s Resignation and thanks from TSC - Duncan to draft</td></tr><tr><td>2. Reaction to Budget Proposal</td><td>Closed session to draft responses to queries on submitted on proposal<br>Action: Need to determine and highlight overlaps with other submitted proposals<br>KH: Expects that TSC budget can align with IOE budget but within an alternative framework for delivery<br>ND: Budget proposal from TSC is an intention to create a framework that allows delivery momentum to be maintained<br>KH: TSC would like express their concerns at the state of communication within Intersect with regards to meeting sharing following the Board meeting with Intersect Members on 16/04/25<br>Meeting with Ger currently being rescheduled.<br>Query from Yuta: Would IOE be willing engage with TSC’s budget should it be successful?<br>RR: No information has been shared with him that IOE would pull out if TSC budget were successful<br>KH: Several proposals submitted would require further information to be able to form a contract<br>AD: to share his reflections on the Budget Process<br>KH: Suggestion for follow-on session on TSC proposal with DReps. Request 15 minutes to give an outline on Thursday’s session<br><br></td><td>[Action]: Coordinate to support for Friday 3am call on TSC budget - Duncan<br>[Action]: Kevin to reshare Poll to reschedule meeting with Ger. All committee members to respond.</td></tr><tr><td>3. Reviewing Core Budget Proposals</td><td>KH: Concern at the level of time required to assess proposals properly. More time than has been provided. Ideally the ability to engage with subject matter experts would be available.<br>ND: Concern that proposals submitted have not identified risks<br>Proposal: TSC may initially draft a series of queries against each proposal to help guide DReps to scrutinise proposals with suppliers.<br>JK: Highlighting the balance between bureaucracy and need to prevent unnecessary chaotic submissions<br></td><td>[Action] Identify proposals that are considered core<br>[Action] Determine framework by which proposals will be judged<br>[Action] Review proposals that have been submitted.<br>[Action]: KH to provide a framework for analysing bids to the TSC<br></td></tr><tr><td>4. IOG Maintenance Contract</td><td>ND: Drawn concern that significant changes have been made to the IOE maintenance contract without TSC consultation.<br>ND: Current version does not allow value for money to be demonstrated to the community<br>ND: Query as to whether TSC should continue to let its name to the maintenance contract<br>JK: Changes between original and revised contract -<br>- Doubled in length and cost<br>- Removed named people from contract<br>- Removed fiscal reporting/auditing requirements<br><br>DS: Concern that contract in current 12-month form will be in conflict with both IOE &#x26; TSC budget submissions<br>KH: Query as to where funding comes from for back payment of maintenance contract. Does this back payment need to be made as a budget submission?<br>RR: Does the TSC agree that IOE has been delivering as per the maintenance contract (which currently remains unsigned)<br>ND: Agreed that from the end of Jan to present (apart from last 2 weeks which he hasn’t reviewed) that this has operated extremely well and was very pleased with how it was operating.<br>RR: Insists that changes were made by Intersect rather than IOE.<br>RR: Is happy for list of names to be added back into contract<br><br>KH: Establish whether previous version of contract could be reimplemented<br>RR: Happy with 6 or 12 month time frame. However 2 (or 4) week termination period would not to be acceptable. 3 months would be agreeable.<br>RR: Issue with auditing function.<br>ND: Want to find a mechanism to help provide evidence of value for money to the community<br><br>JK: A standardised Framework for Fiscal Reporting needs to be established in order to ensure that there is a transparent, publicly accessible verification of proper allocation of Treasury/Community Funds against agreed upon Contracted works.<br></td><td>[Action] : Series of meetings to be held.<br>[Action]: To raise this issue with the Intersect Board</td></tr><tr><td>5. Project Submission #004: Cardano Serialization Library</td><td>This is pilot for project incubation:<br><br>AD: This library underpins every single DApp so strongly endorses this proposal<br>AD: Only contention is that this is not a core repository owned by Intersect<br>ND: Query over alignment and regression testing<br>BH: Endorse that this is heavily relied on by many developers in the community<br>JK: Submission was made via OSC budget proposal rather than an individual submission<br>DC: Highlights difficultly of long term maintenance and thinks brining it under Intersect budget could help address this problem - endore the idea<br>CT: Will sit under OSC but want the TSC to validate as a “balancing factor”<br></td><td>[Action] Decision needed: Whether this should be taken under Intersect for Tooling<br>[Action] TSC members to review and make decision</td></tr><tr><td>6. Update from Parameter Committee</td><td>Proposal to increase Plutus mem unit limits<br>Proposal to change Plutus v2 cost model<br>KH: Push this to next week’s meeting</td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>
