# 21st May 25

**Meeting Recording:**

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uNzEimQXF18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uNzEimQXF18)

**Attendance:**

<table><thead><tr><th width="127">First name</th><th width="118">Last name</th><th width="417">Position</th><th>Voting Member</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Nicolas</td><td>Biri</td><td>TSC Member (IOG)</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Duncan</td><td>Coutts</td><td>TSC Member (WellTyped)</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Neil</td><td>Davies</td><td>TSC Member (PN Solutions)</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Matt</td><td>Davis</td><td>Intersect - Tech Ops Lead</td><td>N</td></tr><tr><td>Adam</td><td>Dean</td><td>TSC Vice Chair</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Markus</td><td>Gufler</td><td>TSC Member (Cardano Foundation)</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Kevin</td><td>Hammond</td><td>TSC Chair</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Benjamin</td><td>Hart</td><td>TSC Member (MLabs)</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Jonathan</td><td>Kelly</td><td>TSC Member</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Pedro</td><td>Lucas</td><td>Observer</td><td>N</td></tr><tr><td>Ricky</td><td>Rand IOHK</td><td>IOE General Manager - Observer</td><td>N</td></tr><tr><td>Duncan</td><td>Soutar</td><td>TSC Secretary</td><td>N</td></tr><tr><td>Christian</td><td>Taylor</td><td>Intersect - Opensource Head</td><td>N</td></tr><tr><td>Abbie</td><td>Yeates</td><td>Intersect - Delivery Assurance Lead</td><td>N</td></tr></tbody></table>



**Minutes:**

<table><thead><tr><th width="138">1. Apologies</th><th width="474">Apologies from Alex Moser &#x26; Sebastian Nagel</th><th></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>2. Actions from previous week</td><td>- Adam &#x26; Duncan C to complete write up of Intersect Taking on Repository for KES agent<br>- Kevin Hammond to present Parameter Committee proposal to increase memory limits<br>- TSC Members to share their thoughts on TSC Remit</td><td>- Adam &#x26; Duncan C to complete write up of Intersect Taking on Repository for KES agent<br>- Kevin Hammond to present Parameter Committee proposal to increase memory limits<br>- TSC Members to share their thoughts on TSC Remit</td></tr><tr><td>3. Update from ISC<br>a) Intersect budget action is on chain<br>- May be split if initially unsuccessful<br>b) Unclear how treasury actions will be submitted<br>- May need to be split into 2025/2026<br>c) TSC will play a delivery assurance role<br>- May need additional technical reviewer resources to do this<br></td><td>KH: Exec making contingency plan to splat budget into smaller items should initial budget info-action be unsuccessful. Unclear on how treasury withdrawals will work at this stage. Most likely they will be grouped to avoid 39 separate treasury actions.<br>KH: Delivery Assurance - stressed need for additional technical reviewers for Milestone sign off beyond the 10 members of TSC is demand for Milestone Reviews is great.<br>ND: Who will right Milestone items?<br>MD: This is partially answered by the comms from Jack to ISC. Acknowledges there are proposals where no milestones have been given. If project has been submitted with Milestones and approved by DReps then these will be put into contract.<br>ND: Conflicts between projects not yet understood how to be handled.<br>KH: Concern over quality of milestones submitted as part of budget.<br>DS: Explained that ISC is now open to all TSC members to sit as observers</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>4. Presentation on Smart Contracts for Delivery Sign Off</td><td>MD: Presentation on Smart contracts.<br>Work ongoing on by Pi Langham, TxPipe, being checked by MLabs.<br>Walked through high level process for Smart Contract creation:<br>Identified need for funds from budget to be held in Smart Contracts to make it transparent and visible publicly.<br>There is a request in the constitution for funds to be held in Smart contracts where possible, to hold Treasury Money that is locked.<br>Within Treasury action, several addresses can be stipulated as to where the money is sent.<br>Parallel process going on to create a legal contract as a counterpart to Smart Contract.<br>A review process will occur at each Milestone similar to last year, with an Oversight Committee responsibility for managing Milestones and Payments for each contract.<br>Two types of contract: Treasury Withdrawal contract and Vendor Contract. Highlighted 4 routes for Treasury withdrawal contract.<br>Highlights the different themes for splitting out contracts and rules around keys for managing Smart Contract.<br><br>Q&#x26;A<br>AD: Queried ability to return funds to treasury<br>MD: This is one of the key routes for moving funds when needed for each contract<br>MD: Modifying contracts is possible where sufficient people with permission to edit agree - highlights for most of these the Vendor would need to agree to the change<br>MD: Highlights that there are timeouts that can be built in to return these to treasury.<br>MD: Smart contract is effectively a payment mechanism with a legal contract created to back it up.<br>MD: Discussion on who has keys, how many are there, how are they managed that are still being worked out.<br>MD: The first version of Smart Contracts can only be milestone payments. T&#x26;M will need to be broken up into a milestone format.<br>KH: Concern over timing of Net change limit being defined at time withdrawal takes place. So need to make sure Treasury withdrawals are properly timed.<br><br><br>MD: Demonstrated dashboards that are being created to visibly display the management of this process. Inc Sundae Labs &#x26; Zerberous.<br>MD: Clarified that it is expected that Contracts will be under UK Law<br>MD: Highlighted that discussion on management of USD or use of stablecoins is still underway. May not be something that is offered initially but plan is to find a solution to enable this.<br>ND: Interest in whether ALL companies that Intersect does business with, even non-technical companies such as cater companies will have to go through the same process as major vendors.<br>JK: Could partial payments be made though dispersing or modifying and splitting milestones into 2 payments, one for work completed and one for work outstanding.<br>RR: This is possible though modifying the payment<br>MD: Notes that Pi &#x26; Jack are likely to be doing a zoom call on Friday<br>[Action] Matt to share process presentation with the TSC &#x26; share link to Pi &#x26; Jack call on Friday<br>JK: Could an elected member be a key holder on one of these contracts?<br><br><br>BH: Motion: Recommend to ISC, Exec Board &#x26; other Intersect committees that: The majority of voters (signatures) should be to the relevant elected committee members or nominated persons (by the committee) ensure proper community oversight. Yes - Neil, Duncan, Adam, Johnny, Ben, Nicolas, Markus, - Kevin Abstains<br><br><br>RR: Fears over terms of committee members being shorter than the duration of a number of contracts as contract would have to be re-created.<br>NB: Suggestion to reuse CC Key Management System<br>RR: Endorse this but would not be ready for initial contracts<br></td><td>Action: Matt to share process presentation with the TSC<br>Action: Matt to share link to Pi &#x26; Jack call on Friday<br>Decision: Recommend to ISC, Exec Board &#x26; other Intersect committees that: The majority of voters (signatures) should be to the relevant elected committee members or nominated persons (by the committee) ensure proper community oversight. Yes - Neil, Duncan, Adam, Johnny, Ben, Nicolas, Markus, - Kevin Abstains</td></tr></tbody></table>



