# 25th Mar 25

## Attendees:

<table data-header-hidden><thead><tr><th></th><th width="187"></th><th></th><th></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Name</td><td>Attendance</td><td>Role</td><td>Voting Seat</td></tr><tr><td>Kevin Hammond</td><td>Yes</td><td>TSC Chair (IOE)</td><td>Yes</td></tr><tr><td>Adam Dean</td><td>Yes</td><td>TSC Vice-Chair</td><td>Yes</td></tr><tr><td>Markus Guffler</td><td>Yes</td><td>TSC Member (Cardano Foundation)</td><td>Yes</td></tr><tr><td>Johnny Kelly</td><td>Yes</td><td>TSC Member</td><td>Yes</td></tr><tr><td>Ben Hart</td><td>Yes</td><td>TSC Member (MLabs)</td><td>Yes</td></tr><tr><td>Neil Davies</td><td>Yes</td><td>TSC Member (PN Solutions)</td><td>Yes</td></tr><tr><td>Nicholas Clark</td><td>Yes</td><td>TSC Member (Tweag Modus)</td><td>Yes</td></tr><tr><td>Duncan Soutar</td><td>Yes</td><td>TSC Secretary</td><td>No</td></tr><tr><td>Matt Davis</td><td>Yes</td><td>Intersect - Tech Ops Lead</td><td>No</td></tr><tr><td>Christian Taylor</td><td>No</td><td>Intersect - Opensource Head</td><td>No</td></tr><tr><td>Terence ‘Tex’ McCutcheon</td><td>No</td><td>OSC Secretary</td><td>No</td></tr><tr><td>Abbie Yeates</td><td>Yes</td><td>Intersect - Delivery Assurance</td><td>No</td></tr><tr><td>Ricky Rand</td><td>Yes</td><td>IOE General Manager - Observer</td><td>No</td></tr><tr><td>Duncan Coutts</td><td>Yes</td><td>Welltyped - Observer</td><td>No</td></tr><tr><td>Lawrence Clarke</td><td>No</td><td>Intersect - Head of Core Services</td><td>No</td></tr></tbody></table>

## Minutes & Actions:

<table data-header-hidden><thead><tr><th width="184"></th><th></th><th></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Discussion topic</td><td>Minutes</td><td>Actions</td></tr><tr><td>Peras Workshop Outcomes</td><td><p>Workshop successful, technical feasibility of Paras identified</p><p><br></p><p>Key issues: finality differences, operational caveats, economic costs</p><p><br></p><p>Need to communicate trade-offs to community and SPOS</p><p><br></p></td><td><p>Publish workshop outcomes and AMA slide</p><p><br></p><p>Target SPOS for feedback</p><p><br></p><p>Prepare simplified communication for community</p></td></tr><tr><td>Public Letter on Budget Proposal Concerns</td><td><p>Letter drafted to address budget proposal concerns</p><p><br></p><p>Debate on sharing with the board before public release</p><p><br></p><p>Concerns about board's handling of previous communications. </p><p><br></p></td><td>Duncan and team to finalize letter and choose publication channels.</td></tr><tr><td>IOE Engineering Call Off Contract</td><td><p>Contract terms changed due to Intersect/IOG financial negotiations</p><p><br></p><p>TSC to continue to have technical oversight; commercial terms with the Intersect executive team.</p><p><br></p><p>Ricky claims no significant changes to agreement written by TSC members</p><p><br></p><p>Clarification needed on scope, personnel, and TSC's influence</p></td><td><p>Share the latest version of the contract with the TSC.</p><p><br></p><p>Add the named individuals covered by agreement back into contract</p><p><br></p></td></tr><tr><td>Proposal Submission Review Process</td><td><p>New HubSpot submission process for budget proposals.</p><p><br></p><p> Request to reconvene proposal review body.</p><p><br></p><p>Ricky committed that IOG submissions will be put forward in following week. </p><p><br><br></p><p>Discussion on TSC's role, review criteria, and potential conflicts</p></td><td><p>TSC to decide on level of involvement in proposal review</p><p><br></p><p>Submitted proposals to be collated and presented to TSC.</p><p>Will then make a decision on any actions the TSC wishes to take.</p><p><br></p><p>Clarity on how smart contract management and oversight creation will be facilitated. Does the TSC have the power to be able to refine proposals?</p></td></tr><tr><td>TSC Elections Open Sessions</td><td><p>Kevin volunteered to discuss TSC scope/responsibilities</p><p><br></p><p>Open invitation to join the sessions.</p><p><br></p><p>Markus Gufler offered a live stream format</p></td><td><p>Duncan to share the link to the open sessions.</p><p><br><br></p></td></tr></tbody></table>
