# 28th May 25

**Meeting Recording:**

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uNzEimQXF18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uNzEimQXF18)

**Attendance:**

<table><thead><tr><th width="135">First name</th><th width="126">Last name</th><th width="354">Position</th><th>Voting Member</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Nicolas</td><td>Biri</td><td>TSC Member (IOG)</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Duncan</td><td>Coutts</td><td>TSC Member (WellTyped)</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Neil</td><td>Davies</td><td>TSC Member (PN Solutions)</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Alexander</td><td>Moser</td><td>TSC Member Cardano Foundation</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Markus</td><td>Gufler</td><td>TSC Member (Cardano Foundation)</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Benjamin</td><td>Hart</td><td>TSC Member (MLabs)</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Jonathan</td><td>Kelly</td><td>TSC Member</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Sebastian</td><td>Nagel</td><td>TSC Member - IOG</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Duncan</td><td>Soutar</td><td>TSC Secretary</td><td>N</td></tr><tr><td>Christian</td><td>Taylor</td><td>Intersect - Opensource Head</td><td>N</td></tr><tr><td>Samuel</td><td>Leathers</td><td>IOG - Engineering</td><td>N</td></tr></tbody></table>



**Minutes:**

<table><thead><tr><th width="151">Agenda Item</th><th width="383">Discussion</th><th>Actions / Decisions</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>1. Apologies</td><td>Apologies from Ricky Rand, Matt Davies, Kevin, Marcus Gufler - Neil Davies voted interim Chair</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>2. Actions from last week</td><td>Ran through actions from last week including KES Agent Repo adoption &#x26; reqquest for Amaru alternative node proposal review from CC.</td><td>Action: Duncan to share with ISC &#x26; the Intersect Board, the TSC’s view on its role in sign off of deliverables.<br>Action: Duncan C to share Slack details with secretary<br>Action Duncan C &#x26; Adam Dean to share paragraphs on taking on KES Agent Repository</td></tr><tr><td>3. Proposal to Open Up Release Meetings</td><td>SL: Currently release meeting is attended by team leads within IOG so looking to start a working group under TSC. Adam Dean having gone through Maintainer Retainer was recommended.<br>15:00 UTC on Tuesday<br>ND: This meeting is the short term roadmap of the node (Tail end of delivery process). This meeting going public would reveal short term plans.<br>SL: Output from this meeting is node releases and notes with them. Proposal would move this under Intersect ownership.<br>JK: Encourages this step and happy with the move.<br>SN: Would like for this group to share with (Insert other group)<br>DC: Endorse proposal<br>ND: Believes meeting shouldn’t be recorded due to potential sensitivity</td><td>Decision - Release meetings to be opened to TSC and Intersect, minutes to be public, but not the invite<br>Action - Intersect to take over meeting invite, Sam to send through</td></tr><tr><td>4. Alex’s question about “L” parameter<br>- How to include this in the workplan?</td><td>AM: Rivetpool Request how they could push an L parameter<br>L Parameter is the linear or exponential change in saturation depending on pledge. So is a factor within the rewards formula giving different outcomes.<br>Usually request the this goes through PCP process however this is a new parameter and Scope of Parameter is outwith the scope of the Parameter committee.<br>ND: This parameter assumes that we will change the saturation mechanism. This will need a HardFork.<br>AM: Question is how can this idea be progressed into an alliance that results in a fork which includes this proposal? Multiple node teams need to agree. Clarification on what the process is for this?<br>DC: Need to clarify process behind ledger-state changes.<br>AM: Organising specs and requests such as this would be good to sit within the TSC remit.<br>ND: Problem Statement process would be a good start for this to explain advantages and disadvantages, enabling community opinions to be gathered.<br>JK: CIP50 already exists for this from back in 2022.<br>ND: How is this shared with the community to gain feedback?<br>JK: Are there proposals that were approved in the budget that covers this?<br>NB: References CIP &#x26; CPS on Peras, and highlights that this is a good approach.<br>DC: Feels that it is within scope of TSC to ensure proper steps are taken in process and that proper analysis is done.<br>BH: Community validation is one of Intersect’s biggest problems. Queries if validation is within remit of TSC beyond that of the DREPs. Does not think it is TSC responsibility to be reaching out to each of the community groups for every proposal. Highlights importance of engaging SPOs due to need for Hard Fork and that this alters rewards mechanism<br>SNG: Highlights CIP84 which is similar. Points out that this should contain analysis for parameter change. Endorses that TSC needs to define good practice.<br>DC: Reminds TSC that Rewards scheme is for benefit of ADA holders not exclusively SPOs so a wider view is needed.<br>ND: Highlights that getting rewards wrong could have significant impacts on Cardano ecosystem.<br>JK: CIP50 has introduction of L parameter. Revised stakepool incentive scheme is part of IOE proposal.<br>ND: TSC has two roles: 1. to see the analysis that is to be performed ahead of time to comment on this. 2 to see the output of this analysis.<br>AM: When is the trigger point for this work?<br>ND: This work was approved as part of the budget.<br>AM: how to go from CIP to Ledger Change?<br>JK: This would currently fall under the approved work by IOE<br>DS: This needs to be considered in whether this is in scope in TSC<br>AM: Believes this this would be valuable to be within TSC’s scope.<br>JK: Believes that changes like this should form part of a roadmap<br></td><td>Action: DS to add this example to query on TSC scope]<br>Action: Duncan S to approach IOE to comment on Agenda Item, confirm if this is within the scope of their work, what is the process for managing?</td></tr><tr><td>5. Follow-up on increasing Plutus mem limit settings</td><td>Security Council sees no issues - to be confirmed this PM<br>AM: Kevin has prepared meta data for change to increase Plutus Memory Limits. Security council sees no issues.<br>CT: Security Council have queries over block production and Forging times but are happy that this proposal is suitably conservative.<br>SN: Query over how Parameter committee and Security council is evaluating this<br>ND: [Check Recording] Microbenchmarking. Security Council were consulted and approved.<br>ND: Explained the Microbenchmarking and regression testing completed as part of this analysis.<br><br></td><td>Action: TSC to review proposal once released. The to vote to approve and action submission of governance action.</td></tr><tr><td>6. Decreasing committeeMinSize</td><td>JK: Highlights the risk of deadlock that this proposal is looking to avoid.<br>ND: Queries the motivation for this proposal<br>JK: Believes that so far this has progressed well<br>JK: Highlighting the guardrails that exist for this parameter including 3 month discussion period.<br>Thomas invited to Parameter Committee to discuss proposa<br></td><td>Action: DS to share feedback collated so far from TSC also query is this proposal is still relevant</td></tr><tr><td>7. TSC Remit</td><td>DS: Looking for next week's session to be focussed on the the remit of the TSC</td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>
