# 5th Feb 25

## Attendees:

| Name                     | Attendance | Role                               | Voting Seat |
| ------------------------ | ---------- | ---------------------------------- | ----------- |
| Kevin Hammond            | Yes        | TSC Chair (IOE)                    | Yes         |
| Adam Dean                | Yes        | TSC Vice-Chair                     | Yes         |
| Markus Gufler            | Yes        | TSC Member (Cardano Foundation)    | Yes         |
| Johnny Kelly             | Yes        | TSC Member                         | Yes         |
| Ben Hart                 | Yes        | TSC Member (MLabs)                 | Yes         |
| Neil Davies              | Yes        | TSC Member (PN Solutions)          | Yes         |
| Nicholas Clark           | Yes        | TSC Member (Tweag Modus)           | Yes         |
| Duncan Soutar            | Yes        | TSC Secretary                      | No          |
| Matt Davis               | Yes        | Intersect - Tech Ops Lead          | No          |
| Christian Taylor         | Yes        | Intersect - Opensource Head        | No          |
| Terence ‘Tex’ McCutcheon | Yes        | OSC Secretary                      | No          |
| Abbie Yeates             | Yes        | Intersect - Delivery Assurance     | No          |
| Ricky Rand               | Yes        | IOE General Manager                | No          |
| Lawrence Clarke          | Yes        | Intersect - Head of Core Services  | No          |
| Duncan Coutts            | Yes        | Welltyped -Technical Engineer      | No          |

## Agenda:

1. **Ouroboros Peras Investigation - Midway Checkpoint - Nick & Alex**
   1. Providing an update of progress to date and identifying any risks or issues

**2. 2025 TSC Budget Request - Duncan & Lawrence**

**3.  Update on Plomin HF - Kevin**

**4.  Operation of Maintenance Contract - Neil / Abbie**

* deliverables review
* process for setting directions/agreeing additional work items with IOE

**5. Review Proposed Scope of PI Planning Session**

* Sharing of proposed scope

**6. Tender Submission Form - Matt**

* Template to be shared next week

**7.Calls to Tender: Proposal Review Body Outcomes - Kevin/Duncan**

* Update on proposals to be put forward to Tender: Leios, Peras, Midgard, Hydra & Revised Stakepool Incentive Scheme

**8. Cardano Node Emulator Maintenance - Nick**

* Need for a maintenance contract
* How to handle other maintenance activities

## Minutes & Actions:

| Topic                             | Discussion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Action Items                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| --------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Ouroboros Peras Investigation     | <p>- Alexander Esgen presented a midway progress update on the Peras investigation, including details on vote and certificate diffusion, adversary impact, and potential reuse of votes for Mithril.<br>- Discussed the need for efficient vote and certificate diffusion mechanisms, potentially leveraging the decentralized message queue (SIP 137).<br>- Analyzed the impact of adversaries on the pre-alpha version of Peras and potential mitigations.<br>- Explored the possibility of reusing Peras votes for other purposes like Mithril.</p> | <p>- Duncan Coutts to share Leios parameters with the Peras team.<br>- Technical workshop to be held in the 3rd week of March.<br>- Report due at the end of February.<br>- Open session to be held for community discussion.</p>                                                                                         |
| 2025 TSC Budget Request           | - Lawrence Clark presented the 2025 TSC budget and discussed changes, including the generalization of certain costs to the CDH. \<br> - Reviewed the need for a TSC custodial wallet and an on-chain approval tool. \<br> - Addressed concerns about the level of detail in the budget, particularly for roadmap and non-roadmap items. \<br> - Discussed the impact of ADA spending on market price.                                                                                                                                                  | <p>- Complete ROI on maintenance items.<br>- Complete roadmap items section with greater detail and breakdown of funds.<br>- Re-evaluate budget based on 9 months of spend (to cover until Q1 2026).<br>- Duncan and Kevin to reconcile budget discrepancies.<br>- Grant Ricky Rand access to the budget spreadsheet.</p> |
| Plomin Hard Fork                  | - Kevin provided a brief update on the Plomin Hard For and successful rollout                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| Operation of Maintenance Contract | - Discussed the process for reviewing deliverables and setting directions for the maintenance contract with IOE.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | - Neil and Abbie to define the process for reviewing deliverables and agreeing on additional work items with IOE.                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| PI Planning Session Scope         | - Briefly discussed the proposed scope for the upcoming PI planning session.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | - Share the proposed scope with the committee.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Tender Submission Form            | - Discussed the need for a standardized tender submission form.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | - Matt to share a tender submission template next week.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| Calls to Tender                   | - Provided an update on proposals to be put forward for tender, including Leios, Peras, Midgard, Hydra, and a revised stakepool incentive scheme.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| Cardano Node Emulator Maintenance | - Discussed the need for a maintenance contract for the Cardano Node Emulator.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | - Determine how to handle other maintenance activities related to the emulator.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| Maintenance Contract Update       | - Duncan provided a general update on the maintenance contract.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| IE Contract (IOG)                 | - Discussed the outstanding MSA and statement of work for the IOG contract.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | <p>- Ricky Rand to follow up on the MSA.<br>- Duncan to resend the contract to Ricky Rand.</p>                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
