# 6th June 25

**Meeting Recording:**

[https://studio.youtube.com/video/nvYKwgzdfP0/edit](https://studio.youtube.com/video/nvYKwgzdfP0/edit)

**Attendance:**

<table><thead><tr><th width="131">First name</th><th width="129">Last name</th><th width="369">Position</th><th>Voting Member</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Matt</td><td>Davis</td><td>Intersect - Tech Ops Lead</td><td>N</td></tr><tr><td>Adam</td><td>Dean</td><td>TSC Vice Chair</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Markus</td><td>Gufler</td><td>TSC Member (Cardano Foundation)</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Kevin</td><td>Hammond</td><td>TSC Chair</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Benjamin</td><td>Hart</td><td>TSC Member (MLabs)</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Alexander</td><td>Moser</td><td>TSC Member (Cardano Foundation)</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Sebastian</td><td>Nagel</td><td>TSC Member (IOG)</td><td>Y</td></tr><tr><td>Ricky</td><td>Rand IOHK</td><td>IOE General Manager - Observer</td><td>N</td></tr><tr><td>Duncan</td><td>Soutar</td><td>TSC Secretary</td><td>N</td></tr><tr><td>Christian</td><td>Taylor</td><td>Intersect - Opensource Head</td><td>N</td></tr><tr><td>Pedro</td><td>Lucas</td><td>Observer</td><td>N</td></tr></tbody></table>

**Minutes:**

<table><thead><tr><th width="159">Agenda Item</th><th width="413">Discussion</th><th>Actions / Decisions</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>1. Apologies</td><td>Apologies: Johnny Kelly, Nicholas Biri, Neil Davies</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>2. Actions from last week</td><td>KES Agent: Action Adam &#x26; Dunan C on write up of KES Agent Migration<br>Memory Limit Report: Awaiting final information ahead of publication</td><td>Action: This topic to be raised in SPO call</td></tr><tr><td>3. L Parameter</td><td>L Parameter: Proposers met with Parameter committee last week. Only query was on Civil Protection. May have an economic impact on SPOs, which may need to be addressed. CIP50 has been revived and is place for community discussion.<br>RR: Expects that this does fall under the scope of IOE’s work to implement change if it is agreed. Noted that this will need a hard/soft fork.<br>AD: No quorum, therefore no quorum therefore make sure comms is opinion neutral. Is there a plan for how community sentiment can be judged in the future beyond those that comment on the CIP. Important due to the economic and monitory impact, this needs a process to ensure that this has wide community support.<br>KH: May be good to put this through as an info-action<br>AD: Need to set new precedent on how major changes are decided to be implemented<br>KH: Either put forward individual changes or when a hardfork is being enacted then the functionality within that HF needs to be collated.<br><br><br></td><td>Action: Duncan to put out comms on this CIP.<br>Action: Kevin &#x26; Seb to go to SPO call to raise this issue<br>Action: Christian to share ecosystem diagram on what is 'core'<br></td></tr><tr><td>4. Core Budget Proposals Review</td><td><p>Review of the projects that were approved as part of the budget process<br>KH: Not clear if core or not in many instance. Not clear if tooling falls under TSC or not.</p><p>KH: Listed examples of things he did and did not believe were core<br>AD: Why approach this in this way? To what end?<br>DS: Agreed with Adam, would prefer to focus on TSC role rather that definition of core<br>CT: Core was defined by the Repos<br>AD: Challenges the concept that anything not Haskell or<br>DS: Anything that needs a HardFork needs to be within TSC<br>AD: Discussion on Star Steam<br>CT: Use ecosystem Diagram to determine what is “Core”<br>Some tooling is important for supporting essential core development, should this fall under the TSC?<br>OSC still working out how payments are made for tooling <br>OSC will support building things on top of core. Lucid evolution could also apply to tooling.<br></p></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>5. TSC Remit</td><td>DS: Shared a RACI template to help shape and formalise the TSC's role<br>DS: Requested TSC members input their views of TSC's role across several key areas<br>KH: Explained Key Steps in Hard Fork Coordination</td><td>Action: All TSC members to input their views on TSC's role</td></tr></tbody></table>

