# 10 April 24

## **Attendees:**&#x20;

Duncan Soutar,  Kevin Hammond, Christian Taylor

## **Minutes:**

1.  Repo Maintenance - Carando Node Emulator & Anteus

    1. A replacement maintainer is needed following the departure of the current maintainer from Tweag
    2. Jordan Millar has volunteered. Kevin to check capacity.
    3. If agreed, this will need to form part of change process


2.  Carando Node Emulator & Anteus

    1. No volunteers to replace Joaqin as secretary within the Parameters Committee. Therefore an external replacement will need to be found
    2. A replacement is needed fairly urgently due to upcoming decisions that will need to be made
    3. Matt & Karen responsible for finding at least a short term solution


3.  Current Node status

    1. Node version 8.10.0 now released to SanchoNet with improvements to governance commands and bug fixes
    2. Node Version 8.9.2 - work has just started and will be released to MainNet. This is a patch around the peer sharing feature
    3. Starting work on Node version 8.11.0


4.  Q2 PI Planning

    1. &#x20;Value Demonstrations for PI 1 to be set up for Wednesday next week
    2. Session for PI 2 to follow shortly after
    3. Agreement on need to show more tribe level work that is planned and has been completed



## **Actions:**

* Kevin Hammond to speak with Jordan Millar to determine whether jordan can act as a maintainer for for Node Emulator & Anteus
* Duncan Soutar to record the above in the change management process
* Matt Davis & Karen Wickham to find a short (or long) term replacement for the the Parameters committee secretary (Urgent)
* Duncan Soutar to set up an extended Delivery Assurance Session next Wednesday&#x20;
* Duncan Soutar & Matt Davis to send Kevin through feedback on Q1â€™s PI plan ahead of Q2
* Kevin Hammond to share tribe level plans for next quarter
* Matt Davis & Duncan Soutar to review OSC vs TSC RACI proposal
