# 17th July

**Attendees:**

Duncan Soutar, Kevin Hammond, Christian Taylor, Lewis Maybe & Abbie Yeates



**Minutes:**

**Security Council**&#x20;

* Discussion held on Security Council, policy and reporting



**TSC Development**

* Establishment of Discord Channel for Announcements to be completed by close of week to facilitate enhanced communication and transparency with the community.&#x20;
* Technical Working groups to be arranged under new TSC channel to simplify navigation for users
* Elections to TSC - timing and process for elected seats to be put in place for AMM along the same process as other committees
* Acknowledgement that an Interim panel may be required on the TSC to help facilitate technical review of Roadmap & Budget for 2025 as proposed by Roadmap & Budget Committees.&#x20;



**Roadmap**

* Technical Working Groups within the TSC currently developing their Continuity Backlog Items for Q3 with aim to be ready for Friday 19th July
* Technical Working Groups will aim to hold an open session to discuss this work with the community and solicit feedback



**Opensource**&#x20;

* Maintainer contracts being developed
* Discussion on diversifying maintainership with Node Emulator & Anataeus&#x20;
* Discussion on the development of the contribution ladder which is to be published to help provide a pathway to diversify maintainorship
* Kevin Hammond to review the proposed new maintainers put forward by the OpenSource Committee.\


**Parameters Committee**

* Discord Channel Set to b launched to aim communication and transparency with Intersect members
* Initial discussions on Parameter Committee Elections underway



**Hard Fork Working Group**

* Hard Fork Readiness Page now up and running
* Hard Fork Delivery on track - awaiting final detail of Genesis file
* Discussion on how and when this group should dissolve post Hard Fork Delivery



**Delivery Assurance**

* No update



**Change Requests**

* No new change requests
