# 22 May 24

## **Attendees:**&#x20;

Duncan Soutar, Matt Davies, Kevin Hammond, Christian Taylor & Duncan Coutts



### Minutes:

1.  Welltyped Milestone 4 Acceptance Update&#x20;

    1. Summary of What was achieved as part of Milestone 4
    2. Summary of the importance of LSM solution to the long term scalability of Cardano
    3. Summary of the technical solution behind LSM
    4. Discussion on how LMDB solution fits with LSM


2.  Parameters Committee

    1. Alex Kingdon to be replaced with Lewis Mayne from 3rd June
    2. Initial Parameter Settings agreed (these are to be tested in SanchNet)
    3. MinFiResp - working through benchmarks and to be presented at next TSC


3.  Opensource Requests

    1. Resource Registry module as its own package in Hackage
    2. Christian to bring across any remaining work packages still sat with IOG
    3. Updating of Code owners underway
    4. Opensource Project Framework Currently being developed


4.  Update from Hard Fork Working Group

    1. Brought in DRep Pioneer Leaders
    2. Updated Timeline Presented
    3. DQuadrant & Tweag QA SoWs signed


5.  Change Requests

    1. CIP69 Adoption - IOI has commnced work. Change Request to be created to officially document this
    2. UTxO LMDB Proposal - Currently within PI Plan. IOI not seeking to implement this immediately. IOI may request that this is added to Infrastructure Roadmap.
    3. Galois Halo 2 - New SoW issued for milestones 4 & 5 to align with new&#x20;


6.  Security Council

    1. Identified that the establishment of this council is a high priority


7.  Additional Scope

    1. Tweag - Guardrails, Identity Management, Blockfetch SoWs now signed


8. Any Other Business
   1. Acknowledged that Opensource Committeeâ€™s move to Discord appears to have been received well by the community. Something that the TSC will look to take lessons from.&#x20;

## **Actions:**

* [Christian Taylor](mailto:christian.taylor@intersectmbo.org) to migrate remaining work packaged from IOG to Intersect
* [Matt Davis](mailto:matt.davis@intersectmbo.org) to start to get Security Council Established
