# 23rd October

## Attendees:

Matt Davis, Kevin Hammond, Adam Dean, Neil Davies, Ricky Rand, Abbie Yeates, Lewis Mayne

Absentee: Nicolas Clarke

## Minutes:

**Onboarding and Deep Dive Sessions:**

* General onboarding for all five new members, including Marcus Guffler, Ben Hart, and Johnny Kelly, will be organized by Intersect.
* A deep dive into TSC (Technical Steering Committee) will be scheduled for Marcus, Ben, and Johnny. The TSC onboarding deck will cover icebreakers, introductions, and key resources like channels and document sites.

**Meeting Cadence and Terms of Reference:**

* The TSC will review the meeting cadence to ensure it suits newly elected availability.
* The existing terms of reference will be reviewed for necessary updates. Intersect to schedule appropriate session.

**Voting for TSC Chair:**

* A vote for the TSC chair will be held in the next 2-3 weeks, involving the five elected and two remaining nominated representatives

**Budget and Project Roadmap Updates:**

* The new members to be updated on budget discussions and other key topics covered so far.

**Governance Actions and Hard Fork Proposal:**

* An urgent governance action for the Plutus parameter update proposal and an upcoming hard fork was discussed. The proposal will be submitted for voting by the ICC
* Discussions around how to validate governance actions and the need to establish trust and formal processes for submission and identity verification were raised.
* The idea of leveraging Intersectâ€™s public repository for transparency was proposed.
* Agreement from the TSC the out of band discussion on Plutus parameter updates is formally included in minutes. Plutus governance action approved unanimously by Neil Davies, Nicolas Clarke, Kevin Hammond and Adam Dean.

**Budget and Summit Discussion:**

* Matt Davis shared a draft budget process being refined for the summit presentation. The TSC and Product committee will solicit community feedback on projects for the 2025 budget together.
* The timeline for feedback, November through December, will involve socializing items on the backlog with the DReps (Delegated Representatives) and the broader community.

**T-shirt Sizing and Project Management Costs:**

* Discussion around inconsistencies in T-shirt sizing used to estimate project costs. Some teams included project management costs as part of FTE (Full-Time Equivalent), while others listed them as overhead.
* A need for consistent ways to communicate project costs and deliverables was emphasized. To be addressed in DRep communications.

**Standing Items**

Delivery Assurance: No Update

Change Requests: No Update

OSC: No Update

Parameter Committee: Plutus governance actions, as above

