# 30th Oct 24

### Oct 30, 2024 | [Technical Steering Committee](https://www.google.com/calendar/event?eid=Y3QxZjQzZGhqZjVudTJycHU5dW4zcGxmYjBfMjAyNDA2MTlUMTQwMDAwWiBkdW5jYW4uc291dGFyQGludGVyc2VjdG1iby5vcmc)

Attendees:  [Christian Taylor](mailto:christian.taylor@intersectmbo.org) [Duncan Soutar](mailto:duncan.soutar@intersectmbo.org) [Duncan Coutts](mailto:duncan@well-typed.com) Hwang Hongket, Ben Hart, Adam Dean, Johnny Kelly, Neil Davies, Kevin Hammond



1.  N**ew Member Onboarding:**

    * New TSC members Ben, Johnny, and Marcus confirmed receiving onboarding invites. Duncan will coordinate a special TSC introduction to cover terms of reference, roles, and key goals. Members will provide availability for Monday and Tuesday.
    * Separate sessions on budget and process are planned to bring new members up to speed on the financial planning underway.


2. **Peras Contract Status and Review:**
   * The Peros project Statement of Work (SOW) needs finalization. Ricky confirmed he will provide Duncan with the SOW draft and updates for further review, ensuring it’s issued from Intersect.
   * A back-to-back contract between Intersect and IOG is required to formalize funding, pending Lawrence’s input. A redacted contract will be provided to new TSC members due to lack of NDA obligations.



3. **Budget - DRep & Community Sharing**&#x20;
   1. Joint sessions with Product Committee to be established presenting aligned goals sessions in mid november with DReps to explain process, overall numbers and overview of potential projects
   2. Decision: TSC to present a straw man of proposed 2025 roadmap for DRep review and feedback
   3. Decision: Project champions to create a 3 minute elevator pitch video to introduce and explain their proposal&#x20;



4. **Review proposed project template slide - for approval - Hwang**&#x20;
   1. \[Action: Hwang] To update proposal template based on feedback given in session & ensure project champions complete their respective templates
   2. Does TSC think any additions or changes need to be made to template



5. **DRep Feedback Questionnaire**
   1. \[Action: All TSC members]: To review list of proposed questions for DReps&#x20;
   2. Purpose: To enable the TSC to quantify feedback from DReps and make amendments as necessary. Qualitative mainly but also quantitative feedback?
   3. Initial proposed question lists:
      1. Overall level of spend
         1. Priorities of goals
         2. Feedback on projects
         3. Level of uncommitted roadmap capacity
         4. How much contingency

Key: Enable TSC to have level of delegated authority on Core Development Programme for 2025



6. **New TSC chair**
   1. TSC chair to be elected next meeting on 5th November via private ballot
   2. \[Action: All TSC members]: Any TSC members wishing to put themselves forward for a chair position should email Duncan in coming week



7. **Scope of Roadmap Projects**
   1. \[Action: All TSC members] Review current proposed roadmap items and raise in slack any that they believe are out of scope of core development and therefore out of scope of TSC roadmap discussions



8. **Any other Business**
   1. \[Action:Duncan] Add new TSC members to slack channel
