# 5th June

### Minutes:



1.  Parameters Committee

    1. Introduction to Lewis Mayne who is taking up the role as Parameters Committee Secretary
    2. Initial Parameter Settings agreed and to be shared with the community
    3. Proposal: Revising the costs for Plutus to unlock capacity within the node to deal with larger scripts
    4. Review: Establishing the current appetite within the community for increasing the value of K
    5. Research underway looking at rewards mechanisms to more evenly distribute rewards


2.  Opensource&#x20;

    1. Base permissions to be updated


3.  Update from Hard Fork Working Group

    1. Initial timeline for Hardfork shared within the working group
    2. Poll to be conducted on readiness


4.  Change Requests

    1. No new requests


5. TSC Development
   1. Shared plan to develop the TSC to Fully Operational by Intersect's AMM
   2. Continuity suppliers have been invited to form a "TSC Development Group" - IOI, Galois, Tweag, Byron & DQuadrant
   3. 4 workshops scheduled which will focus on: Elected Seat Roles, Roadmap Development, Supplier Tiering & Tendering



